Self Reflections: Accessibility to Public Art in the City of Vancouver
By: Mychelle Wong | GEOB472 - Lab 2

Figure 1. Spanshot of Map Interactivity. Looking at the Neighbourhood Income data, most of the public art this occurs in areas with low to mid household incomes. Interestingly, the area in the south False Creek area (which had the highest neighbourhood income) had lower concentrations of public art. From first glance it can be seen that there is an obvious clustering of public art installations located in the Downtown area of Vancouver which may be due to abundance of buisnesses. As well, Downtown Vancouver is a frequented tourist attraction. 

Collaborations and reliance on other resources:
When I asked peers, about the level of ease to navigate my map I learned that instructions on how to use the map was crucial in communicating the intention of the map . Although it seemed intuitive to enter certain things, providing directions to the user would make it easier to understand. Other resources that I referred to when creating this map were online GIS fourms such as gis.stockexchange. Through these resources, users provided alternative ways to code things such as the legend with different functionalities. The MapBox tutorials provided me with the basis for the buffers that were created.

Reflection:
Using Dissemination Areas (DAs) are common in representing income levels in population because of the systematic way in which 
similar population is aggregated together. However, the decision to install public art pieces tend to be effected by the participating of Vancouver's neighbourhood association (http://coalitionvan.org/about/) in these conversations. This is the reason why that Neighbourhood income data was selected. An issue with using Neighbourhood Median Income data over the DA census data is that the aggregating of the data up (i.e grouping data into larger and broader categories is that the variation is lost and outliers in data are minimized). Having a toggle function in this map to see the distribution in median household income in this map would be further inform these decisions makers in targeting areas with lower income and limited accessibility.

This map is designed mainly for use by urban planners and community organizations such as the neighbourhood associations to identify were public art resides. As defined by the World Health Organization, health refers to the “complete physical, mental and social wellbeing” of a person. Over the years, mental health has become a health epidemic effecting people aged BLANK to BLANK. Current treatments include medication, counselling and physical activity. In addition, some research suggests that engagement of artistic activities either as an observer of creative works, or an initiators of one’s personal creative works can improve the one’s mood, emotions and psychological state (Stuckey and Nobel, 2010 &). Due to rising concerns demand for resources to address this health concern has placed stress on many institutions, health professionals and governments to take action. Incorporating areas where public art can be used as a means to also address issues of social inclusion in the community (Stuckey and Nobel, 2010).

A way in which this map could be improved is to extend this functionality to the general public which would be to acquire bus stop data that would further inform of closests transit stop (both skytrain or bus stop) and from there identify where the closest public art piece is to their location. In addition, I would have liked to include interactivty between the greenways and bikeways that were identified in the city of Vancouver. They are shown on the map but are not included in anyways in any interactivity functions for the user - in the future if I were to do this again, I would like to include functionality which would allow users to identify bike and/or walking paths and allow users to be able to create a custom made "art tour" by clicking points. 

References:
Stuckey, Heather L., and Jeremy Nobel. "The Connection Between Art, Healing, And Public Health: A Review Of Current Literature". American Journal Of Public Health, vol 100, no. 2, 2010, pp. 254-263. American Public Health Association, doi:10.2105/ajph.2008.156497.

